# Visual_Analysis_Covid19
 A visual descriptive analysis of Covid19

There's a highly contagious infection originating from Wuhan, China called COVID-19, otherwise called Covid. It is a group of infections that can cause a wide range of symptoms ranging from mild to fatal, for example, SARS or MERS. It began in December 2019. China's administration asserts that this infection was appended to bats initially; nonetheless, a few residents attempted to taste the kind of game meat, and afterward, the infection began to spread to individuals. As per the WHO, the COVID-19 assessments of the hatching time frame is 14 days. For most contaminated individuals, the side effect will show within five to six days. The WHO also expresses that a few contaminated individuals can be asymptomatic, and it implies they will not show any indications regardless of the transporter—finally, the WHO raises the caution and pronounces the emergency pandemic on March 11, 2020.

To understand this virus's effects worldwide, our team has gathered data on COVID-19, which was extracted from ourworldindata.org. This data was sourced from ECDC (European Center for Disease Prevention and Control) and WHO (World Health Organization). After removing incomplete entries, the dataset consists of 34,932 observations with 25 different attributes, three categoricals, and twenty-two numericals. Each daily observation represents a country's covid statistic (deaths, cases, etc.) along with various country indexes and descriptors between January 6, 2020, and October 6, 2020.  Our initial step was to clean the data set with removing unnecessary attributes, blanks, duplicates, reformatting data types, renaming variable names, converting character types into numeric and so on. We changed the type of location from string to geographic, so we could generate longitude and latitude and plot maps. The cleaning and preprocessing were completed in RStudio. 
